# Assignment
## Your Name / Date

## Executive Summary
To be completed in the last module of the semester.

### Information System Components
Amazon is very easy to make an order through their website. First of all, go to www.Amazon.com. Create an account, search whatever you want from milions of products, pick the item, put your address and the payments, Amazon will ship the item to the nearst carrier and then the carrier will ship it directly to your home.Easy process

### Software
#### GitHub
#### Screen Capture
#### Application, Utility, and Operating Systems
#### ERP
#### Virtualization
#### Python
#### Graphic Modeling and Rendering
Vector graphics are digital art that is rendered by a computer using a mathematical formula. Raster images are made up of tiny pixels, making them resolution dependent and best used for creating photos. When you view a raster image at its original size or smaller, the pixels are invisible—they're just too small to see. They only become apparent when you zoom in or make the image larger. Vector graphics are quite different from raster. You can make them any size, big or small, without losing quality. The image has been enlarged, but there's no pixelation—not even a little bit.
 Basically, lossless image compression means all the data from the original file is preserved. Lossy compression, on the other hand, removes some data from the original file and saves the image with a reduced file size. It’s up to you, as the designer, to tell it how much data to disregard by setting the image compression rate.
 GIF stands for Graphics Interchange Format, and is a bitmap image format introduced in 1987 by CompuServe. It supports up to 8 bits per pixel, meaning that an image can have up to 256 distinct RGB colors. One of the biggest advantages to the GIF format is that it allows for animated images, something neither of the other formats mentioned here allow.
 JPEG (Joint Photographic Experts Group) is an image format that uses lossy compression to create smaller file sizes. One of JPEG’s big advantages is that it allows the designer to fine-tune the amount of compression used. This results in better image quality when used correctly while also resulting in the smallest reasonable file size. Because JPEG uses lossy compression, images saved in this format are prone to “artifacting,” where you can see pixelization and strange halos around certain sections of an image. These are most common in areas of an image where there’s a sharp contrast between colors. Generally, the more contrast in an image, the higher quality the image needs to be saved at to result in a decent-looking final image.
 PNG (Portable Network Graphics) is another bitmapped image format that uses lossless data compression and was created to replace the GIF image format. The PNG format was largely unsupported by Internet Explorer for a long time, making it less commonly used than GIF and JPEG formats, though it’s now supported properly by every major browser. PNG files support palette-based color (either 24-bit RGB or 32-bit RGBA), greyscale, RGBA and RGB color spaces. One of PNG’s biggest advantages is that it supports a number of transparency options, including alpha channel transparency.
#### File Compression
File compresion is a way to put many file to just one file. it decrease the file size and it helps if you don't have space in your drive. About the diffrence as I said before there is diffrence between the file when compressed and when the file is not and there is also diffrence between JEPG file and the compressed file. The compressed file is smaller in size. It helps when you have many file with a big size.
#### Artificial Intelligence
### Career Exploration
Tri-c Providing and helping students to get internships in their careers and help them by navigtating them to the right course or class.For examples, I enrolled to cybersecurity degree, I got many emails about what is the need for the market and what others certificate I can get Like comptia, Cisco, etc to help me have a strong skills.
#### Bureau of Labor Statistics
#### Handshake
#### Certifications, Certificates, and Degrees
#### Industry Associations and Student Organizations

### Computer Architecture
#### CPU
The Purpose of the CPU is guides the computer through the various steps of solving a problem. Data enters the computer through an input unit, is processed by the central processing unit, and is then made available to the user through an output unit., Inside the CPU there is control units receives orders from RAM and the ALU perform mathematical in CPU. There are two inputs and one output the 2 inputs receive instructions from RAM and the output contain of 8 wires register. Register is simply store things like RAM but inside the CPU. It stores numbers temporarily while instruction being processed.  There are 4 things that all computers do Input, store, process, and output each of these things done by a different part of computer. Input converts physical input to binary information then the memory stores information then the CPU calculates information finally output converts information to physical output. When we are using the self-check-out in any grocery store basically what happens it when we scan the barcode (Input) the device sends the barcode translate into a numbers those go directly to the CPU which is translate to identify the item and then send it out as a output with the item picture and price. All this process happens very fast.


#### Gates and Circuits
Computer chips turn inputs into output—ones into zeros and zeros into ones. they work very quickly and simply by writing what's called a truth table. This shows the output you get (one or zero) for every possible input (each separate row of the table describes one of the possible sets of inputs and output).
An AND logic gate works the same way with two electrical inputs. If both inputs are switched on (that is, carry a number 1), the output will be 1 as well. Otherwise, 	the output will be 0. In electronics, we can represent an AND gate with this little symbol. Three ways in which the gate can work are shown below.
An OR logic gate works this way with two electrical inputs. If either input is switched on (that is, carries a number 1), the output will be 1 as well. Otherwise, the output will be 0. In electronics, we represent an OR gate with a different symbol

#### IEEE
#### Storage
Latency is the average time for the sector being accessed to rotate into position under a head, after a completed seek. It is easily calculated from the spindle speed, being the time for half a rotation. A drive’s average access time is the interval between the time a request for data is made by the system and the time the data is available from the drive. In 1997 Seagate pushed spin speed to a staggering 10,033rpm with the launch of its UltraSCSI Cheetah drive and, in mid-1998, was also the first manufacturer to release an EIDE hard disk with a spin rate of 7,200rpm. In 1999 Hitachi broke the 10,000rpm barrier with the introduction of its Pegasus II SCSI drive. This spins at an amazing 12,000rpm – which translates into an average latency of 2.49ms. Hitachi has used an ingenious design to reduce the excessive heat produced by such a high spin rate. In a standard 3.5in hard disk, the physical disk platters have a 3in diameter. However, in the Pegasus II, the platter size has been reduced to 2.5in. 
By late 2001 the fastest high-performance drives were capable of an average latency of less than 3ms, an average seek time of between 4 and 7ms and maximum data transfer rates in the region of 50 and 60MBps for EIDE and SCSI-based drives respectively.

Hard disk drives with heads, platters, magnetic surfaces, spindles, and an array of other complex moving parts. Hard disk drives can be slow disks have to start spinning if they’re not already doing so, then they must get the head to the correct position on the disk to read or write the data. Also, physical problems occurring when a piece of dust or other foreign object gets into the mechanism, or when an impact jolts the drive, and we have a distinctly imperfect system. On the other hand, Solid state (SSD) should be no moving parts: no spinning platters, no moving heads. Data is split into word length pieces and stored in memory. It is then accessed almost instantaneously using unique system-wide addresses. Solid state drives may be preferred over traditional disk drives for several reasons. The first advantage is found, as mentioned briefly above, in the speed of operation. Because hard disk drives need to be spinning for the head to read sectors of the platter, sometimes we must wait for spin up time. Once the disk is spinning, the head must seek the correct place on the disk, and from there the disk must spin just enough so that the correct data is read. If data is spread over different parts of the disk (fragmented) then this operation is repeated until all the data has been read or written. While each individual operation only takes fractions of a second the sum of them may not. It is often the case that reads to and writes from the hard disk are the bottleneck in a system. Because the information on solid state drives can be accessed immediately (technically at the speed of light) there is no latency experience when data is transferred. Because there is no relationship between spatial locality and retrieval speed, there is no degradation of performance when data is fragmented. Solid state drives also enjoy greater stability over their disk counterparts. Because there are no moving parts there is less that can go wrong mechanically. Dust entering the device ceases to become a problem (and in any case solid state drives can be sealed airtight unlike disk drives which require a certain air cushion to function properly), and dropping the drive is less likely to cause damage to the data. There are no heads, so head crashes are a thing of the past.
#### Memory
Increasing RAM impacts computing speed so we load more data without need the slower hard drive 
The difference between 64 bit and 32 bit that 64 bits can transfers 64 bits at a time. DIMM (64 bit) is faster than SIMM(32bit) it can transfer double the amount of the clock cycle.
RAM and HDD, are both types of computer memory. RAM is used to store computer programs and data that CPU needs in real time. RAM data is volatile and is erased once computer is switched off. HDD, hard disk has permanent storage and it is used to store user specific data and operating system file
#### Data Representation
Binary number systems use a base of two while hexadecimal uses a base of 16. In a hexadecimal system, it is necessary to count to 15. To represent the numbers 10 – 15, the letters A – F are used respectively. To distinguish the different number systems, suffixes or subscripts are often used.
#### Operating Systems
I opened the command prompt then I typed help and then help mkdir I chose the folder that i want to create a folder at I had an error with file C SO I picked folder D and then I typed the folder name which is IT1025Momen and then i typed cd and then  dir.

### Networking
#### Data Transmission
Packet is the fundamental unit of data transmitted over the Internet. When a host (PC, workstation, server, printer, etc.) intends to send a message to another host (for example, your PC sends a request to YouTube to open a video), it breaks the message down into smaller pieces, called packets. Each packet has the sender’s address, the destination address, a sequence number, and a piece of the overall message to be sent.
IP Address defintation is every device on the Internet (personal computer, a tablet, a smartphone, etc.) is assigned a unique identifying number called an IP (Internet Protocol) address.
Packet-Switching is when a message’s packets are sent on the Internet, routers try to find the optimal route for each packet. This can result in packets being sent on different routes to their destination. After the packets arrive they are re-assembled into the original message for the recipient.
DNS acts as the directory of websites on the Internet. When a request to access a host with a domain name is given, a DNS server is queried. It returns the IP address of the host requested, allowing for proper routing.
Protocol is the set of rules that govern how communications take place on a network. For example, File Transfer Protocol (FTP) are the communication rules for transferring files from one host to another.
#### Hardware
A switch is smarter than a hub because switch learn the physical address and store them. it is called MAC addresses and directed the data to the intended destination port. Unlike the hub, the Hub  Connect all network all devices together and it is not smart to filter any data or where the data be sent. It sends data to every port without filter.
The router is better than switch and hub because both of them can't read IP Address. However, the router does read IP address. The router does what it names implies. it routws or forward data to one network to another based on IP address. when the packet data recives from the router inspects its data if for own network or another network. if it is for own network it recives it, if it is not to own network it sends it off to another network.
#### Topologies and Types of Networks
Star topology is the one that experience the single point of failure. The single point of failure is when the hub or the switch have an issue the entire netweork go down. . Compare the Infrastructure Topology and Wireless Mesh. Which do you think is better and why? 
An infrastructure topology is used to extend a wired LAN to include wireless devices. In this topology the devices communicate with the wired LAN via base stations which acts as a bridge between wired and wireles. However, wireless mesh is easier to use because it doesn't need more wired like infrastrutre it is very reduned and easy to access.
###Network Design
My design expalins that two computers and printers connected to internet through router.
#### Protocols
There are thousands of different network protocols, but they all perform one of three primary actions
First of all,  Communication protocols allow different network devices to communicate with each other. They are used in both analog and digital communications and can be used for important processes, ranging from transferring files between devices to accessing the internet. For example, Internet Protocol (IP) allows data to be sent between devices via the internet. The internet could not operate as it currently does without IP. Secondly, Network management protocols define and describe the various procedures needed to effectively operate a computer network. These protocols affect various devices on a single network — including computers, routers and servers — to ensure each one, and the network as a whole, perform optimally. For instance, Connection, these protocols establish and maintain stable connections between different devices on the same network. Finally, Security protocols, also called cryptographic protocols, work to ensure that the network and the data sent over it are protected from unauthorized users. For example, transportation security protocols protect data while it is transported from one network device to another.
“IP address” is a shorter way of saying “Internet Protocol address.” IP addresses are the numbers assigned
to computer network interfaces. Although we use names to refer to the things we seek on the Internet,
such as www.example.org, computers translate these names into numerical addresses so they can
send data to the right location. So when you send an email, visit a web site, or participate in a video
conference, your computer sends data packets to the IP address of the other end of the connection
and receives packets destined for its own IP address.
The main difference between IPv4 and IPv6 is the address size of IP addresses. The IPv4 is a 32-bit address, whereas IPv6 is a 128-bit hexadecimal address. IPv6 provides a large address space, and it contains a simple header as compared to IPv4.
ICANN is a public-private partnership that is responsible for the following functions related to internet names and numbers: Allocation of IP address space. ICANN manages the distribution and allocation of IP version 4 and IP version 6 network addresses through five regional internet registries.
HTTP is the protocol that is used for viewing web pages. it is vulurable to hackers because http is not secred like https. so it is not recommened to put any senstive data on HTTP. on the other hand HTTPS is very secured and encrypts any senstive data to a meaningless information so any hacker cant get this information and we know it is https when we see a lock on the web broweser bar.

NSA Cybersecurity prevents and eradicates threats to U.S. national security systems, with an initial focus on the Defense Industrial Base (DIB) and the improvement of the nation’s weapons’ security.

At its core, NSA Cybersecurity aims to defeat the adversary through the seven core missions and functions:

Provide intelligence to warn of malicious cyber threats and information U.S. Government (USG) policy
Develop integrated Nuclear Command & Control Systems threat, vulnerability, risk, and cryptographic products & services
Release integrated threat, assessment, and mitigation/protection products for the Department of Defense (DoD) and USG customers
Execute high-assurance cryptography and security engineering
Offer combined defense/offence operations with key government partners
Enable the defense of the agency’s networks in coordination with NSA’s Chief Information Officer
Promote information sharing to support the agency’s cybersecurity mission

### Cybersecurity and Encryption
#### Security Triad

#### Caesar and Polyalphabetic Ciphers
A Caesar cipher is a simple method of encoding messages. Caesar ciphers use a substitution method where letters in the alphabet are shifted by some fixed number of spaces to yield an encoding alphabet. However, A poly-alphabetic cipher is any cipher based on substitution, using several substitution alphabets. In polyalphabetic substitution ciphers, the plaintext letters are enciphered differently based upon their installation in the text. Rather than being a one-to-one correspondence, there is a one-to-many relationship between each letter and its substitutes.
#### Public and Private Key Encryption
The owner of the private key can encrypt data so that the public key decrypts it; meanwhile, anyone can encrypt data with the public key, but only the owner of the private key can decrypt it. Therefore, anyone can send data securely to the private key owner.
#### Brute-Force Attacks
Prevention For Users, Use long, unique passwords. Brute forcing becomes exponentially harder with longer passwords. You can thwart dictionary attacks by making your passwords more unique. If in doubt, use a password manager to automatically generate and save random passwords for each site.
Secure remote desktop connections as much as possible. Remote desktop is a popular way for attackers to get access to your computer. Leave remote desktop off as much as possible. When it’s on, use an extremely strong password.
Use two-factor authentication. A brute-force attack is far more difficult when a correct password isn’t enough to log into an account. With 2FA, users need their phone or a physical security key to log into their accounts. This makes your account far more secure.
Prevention For Server Operators
Use rate limiting. If you run a server, make sure that hackers can’t try passwords very fast. They might get discouraged and give up if the delay is long enough.
Don’t use account lockouts. If you own a website, it might make sense to lock accounts after a certain number of incorrect attempts. However, this lets an attacker perform a denial of service attack by locking out lots of accounts.
Secure SSH appropriately. Enable fail2ban, disable password logins (in favor of SSH keys), and turn off root login from SSH.
Hash and salt your passwords with modern algorithms. MD5 or another very basic hash algorithm is hardly better than nothing. Use a modern hash function and salt to prevent rainbow table attacks.

### Internet Programming
#### Components of a URL
Domain: www.amazon.com
Scheme: https,
Top level domain:.edu
default page : no file path provided,
parameters: result of search,
anchor: specific location on a page.
#### World Wide Web Consortium
W3C is led by Tim Berners-Lee, inventor of the World Wide Web and Director and Dr. Jeffrey Jaffe, W3C CEO. They are supported by a staff of technical experts who help coordinate technology development and manage the operations of the Consortium. It promotes and helps develop the open source Solid platform. Solid aims to give people control and agency over their data, questioning many assumptions about how the web has to work.
Web of Devices W3C is focusing on technologies to enable Web access anywhere, anytime, using any device. This includes Web access from mobile phones and other mobile devices as well as use of Web technology in consumer electronics, printers, interactive television, and even automobiles.

### Software Development
#### Algorithms
#### Object Oriented Concepts
There are class and object, Class — A blueprint created by a programmer for an object. This defines a set of attributes that will characterize any object that is instantiated from this class.
Object — An instance of a class. This is the realized version of the class, where the class is manifested in the program. These are used to create patterns (in the case of classes) and then make use of the patterns (in the case of objects). Methods are a special kind of function that are defined within a class. The constructor method is used to initialize data. It is run as soon as an object of a class is instantiated. Classes make it possible to create more than one object following the same pattern without creating each one from scratch. we use the __init__ command instantiate an object. Based on what I understand sammy is the instantiated object. Inheritance reduces programming labor by using common objects easily. like in the shark class they use sammy to reduce programming labor by using sammy.

### Database Systems
#### SQL, NoSQL, and Big Data Technologies
SQL is a language that can be used to work with a relational database. SQL can be embedded in many computer languages that are used to develop platform-independent web-based applications. However, A NoSQL database can work with data in a looser way, allowing for a more unstructured environment, communicating changes to the data over time to all the servers that are part of the database. 
Big Data is a collection of data that is huge in volume, yet growing exponentially with time. It is a data with so large size and complexity that none of traditional data management tools can store it or process it efficiently. There are 3 types of big data structred, unstructred, and semi- structred. Structured
Any data that can be stored, accessed and processed in the form of fixed format is termed as a ‘structured’ data. Over the period of time, talent in computer science has achieved greater success in developing techniques for working with such kind of data (where the format is well known in advance) and also deriving value out of it. However, nowadays, we are foreseeing issues when a size of such data grows to a huge extent, typical sizes are being in the rage of multiple zettabytes. Unstructured Any data with unknown form or the structure is classified as unstructured data. In addition to the size being huge, un-structured data poses multiple challenges in terms of its processing for deriving value out of it. A typical example of unstructured data is a heterogeneous data source containing a combination of simple text files, images, videos etc. Now day organizations have wealth of data available with them but unfortunately, they don’t know how to derive value out of it since this data is in its raw form or unstructured format. Semi-structured
Semi-structured data can contain both the forms of data. We can see semi-structured data as a structured in form but it is actually not defined with e.g. a table definition in relational DBMS. Example of semi-structured data is a data represented in an XML file. Characteristics of big data Volume Variety, Velocity, and Variability. Traditional customer feedback systems are getting replaced by new systems designed with Big Data technologies. In these new systems, Big Data and natural language processing technologies are being used to read and evaluate consumer responses. Early identification of risk to the product/services, if any Better operational efficiency. Big Data technologies can be used for creating a staging area or landing zone for new data before identifying what data should be moved to the data warehouse. In addition, such integration of Big Data technologies and data warehouse helps an organization to offload infrequently accessed data.
#### Data and Business Decisions
Businesses can utilize outside intelligence while taking decisions, Improved customer service, Better operational efficiency, and Early identification of risk to the product/services.
#### The Relational model and Normalization
A primary key must be selected for each table in a relational database. This key is a unique identifier for each record in the table. they gave an example about how to identify students by emails or students ID. The primary key of table can be just one field, but can also be a combination of two or more fields. The next step of design of database is to identify and make the relationships between the tables so that you can pull the data together in meaningful ways. A relationship between two tables is implemented by using a foreign key and a foreign key is a field in one table that connects to the primary key data in the original table, Finally, Normalization is to normalize a database means to design it in a way that reduces data redundancy and ensure data integrity.
#### SQL Injections
SQL injection is a code injection technique that might destroy your database. SQL injection is one of the most common web hacking techniques. SQL injection is the placement of malicious code in SQL statements, via web page input. A hacker might get access to all the user names and passwords in a database, by simply inserting 105 OR 1=1 into the input field. To protect a web site from SQL injection, you can use SQL parameters. SQL parameters are values that are added to an SQL query at execution time, in a controlled manner.

### Legal and Ethical Responsibilities in Computing
A code of ethics is a document that outlines a set of acceptable behaviors for a professional or social group; generally, it is agreed to by all members of the group. The document details different actions that are considered appropriate and inappropriate. The purpose of a code of ethics is to inform those acting on behalf of the organization how they should conduct themselves. A code of ethics reiterates the organization's values and morals so that employees and third parties understand the standards they are accountable to uphold. Commitment to ethical professional conduct is expected of every member (voting members, associate members, and student members) of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). This Code, consisting of 24 imperatives formulated as statements of personal responsibility, identifies the elements of such a commitment. It contains many, but not all, issues professionals are likely to face.. Intellectual property is defined as “property (as an idea, invention, or process) that derives from the work of the mind or intellect.” This could include creations such as song lyrics, a computer program, a new type of toaster, or even a sculpture. Practically speaking, it is very difficult to protect an idea. Instead, intellectual property laws are written to protect the tangible results of an idea. In other words, just coming up with a song in your head is not protected, but if you write it down it can be protected. Protection of intellectual property is important because it gives people an incentive to be creative. Innovators with great ideas will be more likely to pursue those ideas if they have a clear understanding of how they will benefit. Copyright is very important because it protects everyone work from others to steal it.  comply with the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act (COPPA), which is enforced by the Federal Trade Commission (FTC). To comply with COPPA, organizations must make a good-faith effort to determine the age of those accessing their websites and, if users are under thirteen years old, must obtain parental consent before collecting any information. The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) is a US law that protects the privacy of student education records. In brief, this law specifies that parents have a right to their child’s educational information until the child reaches either the age of eighteen or begins attending school beyond the high school level. At that point, control of the information is given to the child. While this law is not specifically about the digital collection of information on the Internet, the educational institutions that are collecting student information are at a higher risk for disclosing it improperly because of digital technologies. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA) is the law the specifically singles out records related to health care as a special class of personally identifiable information. This law gives patients specific rights to control their medical records, requires health care providers and others who maintain this information to get specific permission in order to share it, and imposes penalties on the institutions that breach this trust. Since much of this information is now shared via electronic medical records, the protection of those systems becomes paramount.
## Conclusion
To be completed in the last module of the semester.
